hello there I am dr. PC the PC doctor
medical PC genius extraordinaire and
today i'll be performing open-heart
surgery on this patient this is the
manta built a few weeks ago she came
into my office with her admin who looks
shockingly like my wife and I quickly
discovered that Manta was hitting
temperatures well over 90 degrees
Celsius under load in a pinch I was able
to diagnose Manta with what medical
professionals refer to as hot as balls
itis there are many different causes to
hot as balls itis but in mantas case pun
intended
her condition stems from a buildup of
unwanted growth in her loop that's been
caused by her died fluid over time it
can be frightening finding out that you
suffer from this condition but
fortunately for a little man to hear it
is not life-threatening and can be cured
with a full recovery after a simple
procedure that involves ripping out all
of her insides cleaning them thoroughly
and reinstalling them into her carcass
don't worry you'll be asleep as a final
disclaimer what you're about to see is a
medical procedure carried out by a
highly skilled trained and extremely
good-looking professional and should not
be tried at home ladies and gentlemen
without further ado let the surgery
begin
[Music]
[Applause]
Manta has been fully drained and most of
its custom water cooling hardware has
been removed save for its radiators and
some tubing upon disassembling the CPU
and GPU block not only did we find heavy
amounts of staining from the coolant but
there was also a significant amount of
galvanic corrosion and solidified bits
of the liquid that had built up over
time upon further inspection of the CPU
block we discovered that the corrosion
had begun eating away at the micro fin
area and part of the surrounding channel
you can easily see that the nickel
plating of the affected areas has been
worn away revealing the underlying
copper Manta situation is indeed much
worse than we could have ever imagined
in fact even if we were to clean the CPU
block to perfection its cooling
performance is still handicapped by the
fact that some of its micro fin area is
actually missing the fins are designed
with maximum surface area in mind so
they can absorb as much heat away from
the core components as possible should
the fins get clogged or damaged the
cooling performance of the block can be
reduced significantly to the point of
being unusable which is unfortunately
the case in our situation now the metal
on the GPU block doesn't seem to be
eaten away at all but it is heavily
affected by galvanic corrosion as well
to a degree that is unprecedented in
this medical facility now as a doctor
the thought did occur to me to simply
replace our CPU and GPU blocks for new
ones but bear in mind that we still
haven't seen the inside of our radiators
which are most likely affected by some
form of corrosion as well and if we were
to keep those in our loop we would run
the risk of our new blocks looking like
these ones in no time flat as a rule of
thumb it's good practice to flush and
clean out your loop every six months
though you may need to clean it as often
as every couple of months if using a
pastel or dyed fluid good old fashioned
distilled water requires less
maintenance but that alone won't prevent
corrosion in a mixed metal loop adding a
biocide or antibacterial agent will
greatly
Douce the odds of unwanted build-up
alternatively you can look for verified
premix coolants that already include
these agents in them now circling back
to our patient here I was able to clean
the fittings and pump reservoir well
enough but the damaged CPU block is
unusable and I'm not confident that I'll
be able to restore the radiators to a
point where they're safe to use with
half of our loop gone our GPU block is
pretty much useless which is a shame
since it probably just needs a really
good cleaning upon hearing this
information the admin has informed me on
how she'd like to proceed retire Manta
has a custom water-cooled PC and trade
it's cooling solution in for something a
bit more reliable
fortunately mantas admin has very good
insurance so we're able to provide her
some upgraded parts free of charge
including the corsair h 100 i RGB
platinum SE 240 millimeter liquid AI oh
yes it's still technically water cooling
but a closed-loop cooler is far more
reliable and requires much less
maintenance than a custom loop
additionally we'll be upgrading the
graphics card from a gtx 1080 to an
nvidia r TX 2060 super founders edition
and you bet your bottom dollar that it's
air cool
[Music]
[Laughter]
alright Nanta has finally back up and
running and she's looking great
temperatures are fantastic as well we're
hitting around 82 degrees Celsius at our
hottest when rendering in Adobe Premiere
Pro and Media encoder that's way down
from nearly a hundred degrees C which is
what Manta was hitting when she first
arrived in my office a few weeks ago
admittingly our GPU temperatures are not
quite as good as they used to be we're
heading around 79 C at our hottest under
gaming workloads but that is still
within a safe operating temperature at
the end of the day we just weren't able
to get mantas custom loop back up and
running due to severe damage to some of
the hardware which is most likely a
result of a lack of routine maintenance
it's my professional opinion that this
is an oversight which the admin herself
should be held personally accountable
for as opposed to her husband like we
always say in the medical field clean
your loop before there's poop
fortunately by simplifying her cooling
solution Manta is now performing better
than she has in months maybe even years
till next time I'm dr. PC the PC doctor
before you go be sure to head to
biblioteca and pick up some merchandise
as a way to help support the medical
practices we perform on sickly pcs don't
forget to Like and subscribe for more
tech content on the way thanks again for
watching and we'll see you in the next
video